---
layout: post
title: Open Lab Discouragement
description: A post on lab
categories: lab
---
I’m very glad to hear that [Todd](http://tbreijak.github.io/blog/2016-02-17/Slow-and-Steady-Wins-the-Race.html) left the private coding lesson we had with Scott on Monday feeling more confident because I left feeling the opposite. This was not Todd or Scott’s fault, but mine. At the open lab on Monday night, as Scott was going over the concepts of this week’s dailies with Todd, I realized how much of the coding and even the concepts behind the coding I had forgotten in the five days since I worked on the first three dailies (of this two week dailies set) last Wednesday. Kelly, Diana, and I had worked on the first three dailies together last Wednesday and figured out the first and third dailies quickly, and it felt great to figure those iterations out so swiftly. Sadly, I had forgotten much of the work we did and steps we took in the time we coded together on Wednesday and then Monday I really felt like I was starting from scratch with the 500 bubbles assignment even though I had already done it and should have been able to do it again from memory.

Suffice this all to say that I have coded on my own for several of the dailies including my (awesome) turntable from the first week and my house which I refactored by myself, but I want and need to start doing even more coding on my own. Staring this week, I plan on dedicating my Fridays to just coding. I am still having trouble submitting work, which alone is inexcusable five weeks into the semester. Last week, I finally upgraded my laptop to El Capitan OS X so I could download Git Hub Desktop and work from home. Now, I can work in Atom and submit my dailies through Git Hub Desktop while working at home instead of only coding at the 9th floor lab or State Hall classroom. I’m so tired of doing coding and then cutting and pasting my code into my e-mail or transferring work to my USB thumb drive so that I could eventually put projects on my laptop. Honestly, just the thought of how full of sketches both my e-mail and thumb drive are stresses me out, and I wish I had just downloaded Git Hub Desktop sooner and started doing more alone time coding sooner. Ugh, I just realized I’ve been shaking my head as I type this post. Hopefully with the work I have been putting in and the added work I plan on doing I will be able to pass the class. I said last week that I was going to make more time to work with Scott during his office hours and I did do that this week so hopefully that is a sign that I’m capable of carrying through my strategies and goals for the course.
