---
layout: post
title: first lab
description: first lab post
categories: blogging lab
---
My lab experience last week was largely filled with frustration. I enjoy utilizing my creativity to make something, but I’m a slow learner when it comes to technology. This was also my experience as an undergraduate taking courses in Final Cut Pro and ProTools, and last week’s lab definitely brought back my feelings of confusion and frustration in a lab setting. To be frank, I was really hoping that my days of doing non-critical analysis work on a computer for class were behind me. I can keep up with coding instructions or directions related to other computer programs or applications for awhile, but once I miss a step I’m lost. That’s what happened in last week’s lab session: I was able to follow and keep up with the lesson until we returned to geometry and the x-y grid. At that point, I was still paying attention, but the material kept going over my head.

Like with learning Final Cut Pro or ProTools, I realize that trial and error is a big part of learning the coding software. While I struggled with Final Cut Pro and ProTools, I did eventually learn to use both through the trial and error process. When I was finally able to edit a short film and a radio program on my own, the feeling of accomplishment made all the rough patches in the learning process feel worth the stress. I want to be aware of that in this course too. Getting the code right and seeing a finished product, whether in class or with the dailies, is always a pleasing experience even after several experiences of getting it wrong. So I realize that I have to accept the trial and error aspect of coding, and that ‘failing forward’ will be part of the learning practice. For the future lab sessions, I plan on going over the coding lessons before class so I have some familiarity with the material even before sitting down to type. I want to continue thinking of ways I can put in extra work for the coding outside of the lessons and dailies.
